# 字体相关的属性（10）
这一组属性都是可继承的
## 文字颜色（1）
### color


The color property specifies the color of text.

Tip:  Use a background color and a text color that makes the text easy to read.



## font 简写（1）
### font
The font shorthand property sets all the font properties in one declaration.
The properties that can be set, are (in order): **"font-style font-variant font-weight font-size/line-height font-family"**
可同时指定 关于字体的 6个常用属性。
* 先指定修饰样式（3），再指定大小和行高（2），最后指定字体（1）。
* 大小和字体是必填的，缺一不可！否则整个样式就会无效。
The font-size and font-family values are required. If one of the other values are missing, the default values will be inserted, if any.
Syntax:
```
font: font-style font-variant font-weight font-size/line-height font-family|caption|icon|menu|message-box|small-caption|status-bar|initial|inherit;
```
Usage:
```
p.ex1 {
    font: 15px arial, sans-serif;
}


p.ex2 {
    font: italic bold 12px/30px Georgia, serif;
}
```


## 必选属性（2）
大小和字体
### font-size
The font-size property sets the size of a font.


Default value: medium
Inherited: yes
Values:
```
font-size:medium|xx-small|x-small|small|large|x-large|xx-large|smaller|larger|length| %;
```
% : 相对于父元素的字体大小。


Values:
```
font-weight: normal|bold|bolder|lighter|number;
```
### font-family
The font-family property specifies the font for an element.
The font-family property can hold several font names as a "fallback" system. If the browser does not support the first font, it tries the next font.
There are two types of font family names:
family-name - The name of a font-family, like "times", "courier", "arial", etc.
generic-family - The name of a generic-family, like **"serif", "sans-serif", "cursive", "fantasy", "monospace"**.
Start with the font you want, and always end with a generic family, to let the browser pick a similar font in the generic family, if no other fonts are available.
Note: Separate each value with a comma.
Note: If a font name contains white-space, it must be quoted. Single quotes must be used when using the "style" attribute in HTML.


Default value: **depends on the browser**
Inherited: yes


Usage:
p {
    font-family: "Times New Roman", Georgia, Serif;
}


#### 两种font-family
In CSS, there are two types of font family names:
* generic family - a group of font families with a similar look (like "Serif" or "Monospace")
* font family - a specific font family (like "Times New Roman" or "Arial")


#### 常用的字体设置
Generic family |Font family |Description
---|---|:---
Serif | Times New Roman, Georgia |（字母末端有横线）Serif fonts have small lines at the ends on some characters
Sans-serif | Arial, Verdana |（字母末端没有横线）"Sans" means without - these fonts do not have the lines at the ends of characters
Monospace | Courier New, Lucida Console |（字母等宽）All monospace characters have the same width
**Note: On computer screens, sans-serif fonts are considered easier to read than serif fonts.**


#### Web安全字体
大概是以sans-serif, serif,monospace结尾的字体族吧
```
Georgia, serif  比较好看
"Times New Roman", Times, serif


Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif
Verdana, Geneva, sans-serif  比较可爱没那么正式


"Lucida Console", Monaco, monospace 比较好看，sans风格的等宽字体
```


## 常用文字样式（3）
### font-weight
设置字体粗细。——chrome也就只有正常和粗体两种级别（normal and bold）。


### font-style
设置斜体文字。


Default value: normal
Inherited: yes


Values:
```
normal The browser displays a normal font style. This is default
italic The browser displays an italic font style
oblique The browser displays an oblique font style italic和oblique都是向右倾斜的文字, 但区别在于Italic是指斜体字，而Oblique是倾斜的文字，对于没有斜体的字体应该使用Oblique属性值来实现倾斜的文字效果.
```
### font-variant 大小写
把小写字母转成小号的大写字母。
In a small-caps font, all lowercase letters are converted to uppercase letters. However, the converted uppercase letters appears in a smaller font size than the original uppercase letters in the text.
The font-variant property specifies whether or not a text should be displayed in a small-caps font.
Values:
```
font-variant: normal|small-caps;
```


## 自定义字体相关的（1）
### @font-face
自定义字体—— 就可以用Web安全字体以外的字体啦！<mark>非常Powerful！</mark>
With the @font-face rule, web designers do no longer have to use one of the "web-safe" fonts.


In the new @font-face rule you must first define a name for the font (e.g. myFirstFont), and then point to the font file.


Tip: Use lowercase letters for the font URL. Uppercase letters can give unexpected results in IE!


To use the font for an HTML element, refer to the name of the font (myFirstFont) through the font-family property:


#### 浏览器支持情况
TTF/OTF和WOFF这两种格式的字体，已被广泛支持。
WOFF2，SVG，EOT没有被所有浏览器支持
* Edge and IE: The font format only works when set to be "installable".
* Firefox: Disabled by default, but can be enabled (need to set a flag to "true" to use WOFF2).


Syntax:
```
@font-face {
    font-properties
}
```


Values:
```
font-family name Required. Defines the name of the font.
src URL Required. Defines the URL(s) where the font should be downloaded from
font-stretch normal,。。。Optional. Defines how the font should be stretched. Default value is "normal"
font-style normal
italic
oblique Optional. Defines how the font should be styled. Default value is "normal"
font-weight normal，bold Optional. Defines the boldness of the font. Default value is "normal"
unicode-range unicode-range Optional. Defines the range of unicode characters the font supports. Default value is "U+0-10FFFF"
```


## 浏览器支持不好的属性（2）
### font-size-adjust
<mark>目前只有火狐支持</mark>
字体大小自适应 —— 设置文字大小，使在选择第二字体的时候，大小也能和第一字体视觉一致。
The font-size-adjust property gives you better control of the font size when the first selected font is not available.


When a font is not available, the browser uses the second specified font. This could result in a big change for the font size. To prevent this, use the font-size-adjust property.


All fonts have an "aspect value" which is the size-difference between the lowercase letter "x" and the uppercase letter "X".


When the browser knows the "aspect value" for the first selected font, the browser can figure out what font-size to use when displaying text with the second choice font.


### font-stretch
<mark>目前浏览器都不支持</mark>
设置字体宽窄。
The font-stretch property allows you to make text wider or narrower.



















