## 背景相关的（10）

### 背景简写（1）
#### background



The background shorthand property sets all the background properties in one declaration.

The properties that can be set, are: background-color, background-image, background-position, background-size, background-repeat, background-origin, background-clip, and background-attachment.

It does not matter if one of the values above are missing, e.g. background:#ff0000 url(smiley.gif); is allowed.

Note:  Internet Explorer 8 and earlier versions do not support multiple background images on one element.


Values:
```
background:  color image position/size repeat origin clip attachment  initial|inherit;

```
Note:  If one of the properties in the shorthand declaration is the background-size property, you must use a / (slash) to separate it from the background-position property



Usage:
```
body  { 
     background:  #00ff00 url("smiley.gif") no-repeat fixed center;  
}

```


### 背景色、背景图相关的（2）
#### background-clip
背景覆盖范围（适用于背景色和背景图片）。
The background-clip property specifies the painting area of the background.



     Default value: border-box



Values:
```
background-clip: border-box|padding-box|content-box|initial|inherit;

```


#### background-blend-mode

背景叠加。
The background-blend-mode property defines the blending mode of each background layer (color and/or image).



     Default value: normal



Values:
```
background-blend-mode: normal|multiply|screen|overlay|darken|lighten|color-dodge|saturation|color|luminosity;

```
Value | Description Play it
---|:---
**normal** | This is default. Sets the blending mode to normal Play it »
multiply | Sets the blending mode to multiply Play it »
screen | Sets the blending mode to screen Play it »
overlay | Sets the blending mode to overlay Play it »
darken | Sets the blending mode to darken Play it »
lighten | Sets the blending mode to lighten Play it »
color-dodge | Sets the blending mode to color-dodge Play it »
saturation | Sets the blending mode to saturation Play it »
color | Sets the blending mode to color Play it »
luminosity | Sets the blending mode to luminosity
### 背景色相关的（1）
#### background-color
```
background-color:  color |transparent|initial|inherit;

```




The background-color property sets the background color of an element.

The background of an element is the total size of the element, **including padding and border** (but not the margin).


     Default value:      transparent     
     Inherited:            no           


<mark>渐变背景色，背景叠加:</mark>
```
background-image:  linear-gradient(to right, black 0%, white 100%), url('w3css.gif');

```             


### 背景图相关的（6）
#### background-image


The background-image property sets one or more background images for an element（多层背景图）.




Tip:  The background image is placed according to the background-position property. By default, a background-image is placed **at the top-left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally**.

Tip:  Always set a background-color to be used if the image is unavailable.




Usage:

```

body  {
     background-image:  url("img_tree.gif"), url("img_flwr.gif");
     background-color:  #cccccc;
}


```


```
background-image:  url |none|initial|inherit;

```


#### background-position
The background-position property sets the **starting position** of a background image.



Tip:  By default, a background-image is placed at the top-left corner of an element, and repeated both vertically and horizontally.


    Default value: 0% 0%

     Inherited: no


Values:
|取值|描述|
|---|---|
|left top |表示哪个点对齐。类似的还有left, right, center和 top, bottom, center。If you only specify one keyword, the other value will be "center"
|x% y% | If you only specify one value, the other value will be 50%. . Default value is: 0% 0%
|xpos ypos | If you only specify one value, the other value will be 50%. You can mix % and positions
|inherit |Inherits this property from its parent element. Read about inherit


Usage(3):
```
body  { 
     background-image:  url('smiley.gif');
     background-position:  center center;  
}



background-position:  -60px -80px;  



background-position:  30% 20%;  

```


#### background-size
The background-size property specifies the size of the background images.



    Default value: auto



Values:
```
background-size: auto| length |pencent|cover|contain|initial|inherit;

```
Value| Description
---|:---
 auto |  Default value. The background-image contains（保持） its width and height
length|  Sets the width and height of the background image. If only one value is given, the second is set to "auto"(下同)
percentage |  Sets the width and height of the background image in percent of the parent element. 
cover | <mark> Scale to cover the element. </mark>Scale the background image to be as large as possible so that the background area is completely covered by the background image. Some parts of the background image may not be in view within the background positioning area
contain | <mark> Scale to fit the element.</mark>Scale the image to the largest size such that both its width and its height can fit inside the content area


**Stretch** the background image to completely cover the content area:

```
div  {
     background:  url(img_flwr.gif);
     background-size:  100% 100%;
     background-repeat:  no-repeat;
}

```
**Stretch** the background image so that exactly four copies fit horizontally:

```
div  {
     background:  url(w3css.gif);
     background-size:  25%;
}

```


#### background-origin


The background-origin property specifies where the background image is positioned.

Note:  If the background-attachment property is set to "fixed", this property has no effect.




    Default value: padding-box





Values:

```

background-origin: padding-box|border-box|content-box|inherit;


```



#### background-repeat

The background-repeat property sets if/how a background image will be repeated.



     Default value: repeat



Values:
```
background-repeat: repeat|repeat-x|repeat-y|no-repeat|initial|inherit;

```


#### background-attachment
随元素滚动，还是在最初的位置不动。
The background-attachment property sets whether a background image is fixed or scrolls with the rest of the page.



    Default value: scroll



Values:
```
background-attachment: scroll|fixed|local|inherit;

```
Value | Description
---|:---
scroll | 相对于元素固定。The background scrolls along with the element. This is default
fixed | 相对于视口固定。The background is fixed with regard to the viewport
local | 相对于元素中的内容固定（当元素有滚动条时）。The background scrolls along with the element's contents











































