## transform相关的（4）
### transform
盒子的变形。
The transform property applies a 2D or 3D transformation to an element. This property allows you to rotate, scale, move, skew, etc., elements.


Usage:
```
div {
    -ms-transform: rotate(7deg); /* IE 9 */
    -webkit-transform: rotate(7deg); /* Chrome, Safari, Opera */
    transform: rotate(7deg);
}
```


Values：
旋转、平移、缩放（3）:
Value |Description
---|:---
translate(x,y) |Defines a 2D translation
scale(x,y) |Defines a 2D scale transformation
rotate(angle) |旋转只需要指定角度。Defines a 2D rotation, the angle is specified in the parameter


3D的旋转、平移、缩放
Value |Description
---|:---
translate3d(x,y,z) |Defines a 3D translation
scale3d(x,y,z) |Defines a 3D scale transformation
rotate3d(x,y,z,angle) |Defines a 3D rotation


在单方向上旋转、平移、缩放
Value |Description
---|:---
translateX(x) |Defines a translation, using only the value for the X-axis
translateY(y) |Defines a translation, using only the value for the Y-axis
translateZ(z) |Defines a 3D translation, using only the value for the Z-axis
scaleX(x) |Defines a scale transformation by giving a value for the X-axis
scaleY(y) |Defines a scale transformation by giving a value for the Y-axis
scaleZ(z) |Defines a 3D scale transformation by giving a value for the Z-axis
rotateX(angle) |Defines a 3D rotation along the X-axis
rotateY(angle) |Defines a 3D rotation along the Y-axis
rotateZ(angle) |Defines a 3D rotation along the Z-axis


倾斜
Value |Description
---|:---
skew(x-angle,y-angle) |Defines a 2D skew transformation along the X- and the Y-axis
skewX(angle) |Defines a 2D skew transformation along the X-axis
skewY(angle) |Defines a 2D skew transformation along the Y-axis


投影？？
Value |Description
---|:---
perspective(n) |Defines a perspective view for a 3D transformed element


矩阵变化（高级课题）
Value |Description
---|:---
matrix(n,n,n,n,n,n) |Defines a 2D transformation, using a matrix of six values
matrix3d(n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n,n) |Defines a 3D transformation, using a 4x4 matrix of 16 values


### transform-origin
设置形变的基准点(不会影响translate)：
The transform-origin property allows you to change the position of transformed elements.
2D transformations can change the x- and y-axis of an element. 3D transformations can also change the z-axis of an element.
To better understand the transform-origin property, view a demo.
Note: This property must be used together with the transform property.
Tip: To better understand this property for 3D transforms, view a demo.


Default value: 50% 50% 0


Value |Description
---|:---
x-axis |left, center, right, length, %  | Defines where the view is placed at the x-axis. Possible values:
y-axis |left, center, right, length, %   |Defines where the view is placed at the y-axis. Possible values:
z-axis |length  |Defines where the view is placed at the z-axis (for 3D transformations). Possible values:


### transform-style
只在3D变换时起作用。
The transform-style property specifies how nested elements are rendered in 3D space.
Note: This property must be used together with the transform property.


Default value: flat
Inherited: no


Value |Description
---|:---
flat |子元素就投影在父元素上。Specifies that child elements will NOT preserve its 3D position. This is default
preserve-3d |子元素存在于3D空间。Specifies that child elements will preserve its 3D position


### backface-visibility
当一个元素旋转到反面儿面对屏幕时，默认反面是可见的。可以设置反面为不可见
The backface-visibility property defines whether or not an element should be visible when not facing the screen.
This property is useful when an element is rotated, and you do not want to see its backside.


Default value: visible
Inherited: no


Usage:
```
div {
    -webkit-backface-visibility: hidden; /* Chrome, Safari, Opera */
    backface-visibility: hidden;
}
```


## 投影相关的（2）
### perspective
设置3D物体到投影面的距离。
The perspective property defines how many pixels a 3D element is placed from the view. This property allows you to change the perspective on how 3D elements are viewed.
When defining the perspective property for an element, it is the CHILD elements that get the perspective view, NOT the element itself.
Note: The perspective property only affects 3D transformed elements!
Tip: Use this property together with the perspective-origin property, which allows you to change the bottom position of 3D elements.


Default value: none
Inherited: no


### perspective-origin
设置3D物体的起始位置？？
The perspective-origin property defines where a 3D element is based in the x- and the y-axis. This property allows you to change the bottom position of 3D elements.
When defining the perspective-origin property for an element, it is the CHILD elements that are positioned, NOT the element itself.


Note: This property must be used together with the perspective property, and only affects 3D transformed elements!


Default value: 50% 50%
Inherited: no


Values:
Value |Description
---|:---
x-axis |left, center, right, length, % |Defining where the view is placed at the x-axis
y-axis |left, center, right, length, % |Defining where the view is placed at the y-axis