## 盒模型相关的（38）
### 盒子的外边缘（5）
### outline
边框外的边框。。
An outline is a line that is drawn around elements (outside the borders) to make the element "stand out".
The outline shorthand property sets all the outline properties in one declaration.
The properties that can be set, are (in order): outline-color, outline-style, outline-width.
If one of the values above are missing, e.g. "outline:solid #ff0000;", the default value for the missing property will be inserted, if any.
Note: The outline is not a part of the element's dimensions, therefore the element's width and height properties do not contain the width of the outline.


Default value: invert none medium
Inherited: no


Usage:
```
p  {
     outline:  #00FF00 dotted thick;
}

```


### outline-color
The outline-color property specifies the color of an outline.
Note: Always declare the outline-style property before the outline-color property. An element must have an outline before you change the color of it.


Values:
Value |Description
---|:---
invert |Performs a color inversion. This ensures that the outline is visible, regardless of color background. ——骗子。。This is default
color |Specifies the color of the outline. Look at CSS Color Values for a complete list of possible color values.


### outline-style
The outline-style property specifies the style of an outline.


Default value: none


Values:
参见border属性。


### outline-width
The outline-width specifies the width of an outline.


Default value: medium


Values:
Value |Description
---|:---
medium |Specifies a medium outline. This is default Play it »
thin |Specifies a thin outline Play it »
thick |Specifies a thick outline Play it »
length |Allows you to define the thickness of the outline


### outline-offset
<mark>IE不支持</mark>
设置outline向盒子外偏移的距离。
The outline-offset property adds space between an outline and the **edge or border** of an element.
Outlines differ from borders in two ways:
* An outline is a line drawn around elements, outside the border edge
* A outline do not take up space 不占空间、可以和margin、相邻元素重叠
* An outline may be non-rectangular？？


Default value: 0
Inherited: no


Usage:
```
div {
    border: 2px solid black;
    outline: 2px solid red;
    outline-offset: 15px;
}
```


### 怎么计算盒子的长和宽
#### box-sizing
告诉浏览器，怎样计算盒子的长和宽。
The box-sizing property is used to tell the browser what the sizing properties (width and height) should include.
Should they include the border-box? Or just the content-box (which is the default value of the width and height properties)?


Default value: content-box
Inherited: no


Value（值） |Description
---|:---
content-box |只计算内容。Default. The width and height properties (and min/max properties) includes only the content. Border, padding, or margin are not included
border-box |长度（宽）包括了内容、内边距和边框。The width and height properties (and min/max properties) includes content, padding and border, but not the margin
padding-box |可能不太实用吧，都被w3c给忘了。。


### 可以拉伸的盒子（1）
#### resize
可以拉伸的盒子——横向、纵向或双向。<mark>Powerful！</mark>
The resize property specifies whether or not an element is resizable by the user.
Note: The resize property applies to elements whose computed overflow value is something other than "visible".
**有条件生效**：只对块状元素、或inline-block元素生效；仅在盒子的overflow不是visiable时生效。


Default value: none
Inherited: no


Values:
```
resize: none|both|horizontal|vertical
```


### 盒子的透明度（1）

### opacity
前景背景同时透明。
The opacity property sets the opacity level for an element.
Specifies the opacity. From 0.0 (fully transparent) to 1.0 (fully opaque)


Default value: 1
Inherited: no
### 盒子的长与宽（6）

#### width


The width property sets the width of an element.

Note:  The width property 代表内容的宽度。

Note:  The min-width and max-width may override width.




    Default value: auto


Values:
Value |Description
---|:---
auto |**Default value**. The browser calculates the width（<mark>块状元素默认占容器 宽度的100%</mark>）
length |Defines the width in px, cm, etc. 
% |Defines the width in percent of the containing block


#### height
<mark>通常不会设置高度</mark>



The height property sets the height of an element.
Note: The height property sets 内容的高度。
Note: The min-height and max-height properties override height.


     Default value: auto


Values:
Value |Description
---|:---
auto |**Default.** The browser calculates the height. （<mark>块状元素的高度就等于所包含元素的总高度</mark>）
length |Defines the height in px, cm, etc. 
% |Defines the height in percent of the containing block


#### max-width


The max-width property is used to set the maximum width of an element.

This **prevents the width from becoming larger than max-width**.

Note: The value of the max-width property overrides width. 







     Default value: none



Values: 同上





#### min-width


The min-width property is used to set the minimum width of an element.

This prevents the width from becoming smaller than min-width.



** Note: The value of the min-width property overrides both max-width and width.**








     Default value: 0


#### max-height


The max-height property is used to set the maximum height of an element.

This prevents the value of the height property from becoming larger than max-height.

Note:  The value of the max-height property overrides  height . 


    Default value: none



#### min-height


The min-height property is used to set the minimum height of an element.

This prevents the value of the height property from becoming smaller than min-height.

**Note:  The value of the min-height property overrides both  max-height  and  height .**




     Default value: 0



### 盒子周围的边距（4 / 10）
#### margin
The margin shorthand property sets all the margin properties in one declaration. This property can have from one to four values.



Examples: * margin:10px 5px 15px 20px （顺时针！）
     * top margin is 10px
     * right margin is 5px
     * bottom margin is 15px
     * left margin is 20px
* margin:10px 5px 15px （上、左右、下）
    *  top margin is 10px
    *  right and left margins are 5px
    *  bottom margin is 15px
* margin:10px 5px（上下、左右）
     * top and bottom margins are 10px
    *  right and left margins are 5px
* margin:10px;
    *  all four margins are 10px







Note:  It is also possible to use negative values for margins; <mark>to overlap content</mark>.

Note: 相邻块的上下边距会自动合并（取两者的较大值）。

Note: <mark>行内元素没有上下外边距、但有上下内边距</mark>
    

    Default value: 0



Values:
Value |Description
---|:---
length |Specifies a margin in px, pt, cm, etc. Default value is 0
% |Specifies a margin in percent of the width of the containing element
auto |The browser calculates a margin（自动设置水平外边距，最终会使元素居中）
Note: <mark>设置百分比时，padding是以当前元素的长或宽为基准，而margin是以容器的为基准。</mark>



#### margin-*
margin-bottom, margin-left, margin-right,margin-top
设置某一边的外边距。


#### padding
The padding shorthand property sets all the padding properties in one declaration. This property can have from one to four values. (同margin)
Note:  Negative values are **NOT** allowed.




     Default value: 0
Values:
(同margin)


#### padding-* 
padding-bottom, padding-left, padding-right, padding-top




设置某一边的内边距。




### 盒子的影子

#### box-shadow


The box-shadow property attaches **one or more** shadows to an element.





Usage:

```

div  {
     box-shadow:  10px 10px 5px #888888;
}


```






Syntax:

```

box-shadow: none| h-shadow v-shadow blur spread color  |inset;


```

Values:



Value（值） |Description

---|:---

h-shadow |阴影的横向偏移

v-shadow |阴影的纵向偏移

blur |（可选）模糊半径

spread |（可选）放大阴影？这个真不常用

color |(最好指定)阴影颜色（可以指定透明度，很自然）In Safari (on PC) the color parameter is required. If you do not specify the color, the shadow is not displayed at all.

inset |（可选）把外阴影改为内阴影















### 盒子内容的溢出（3）
#### overflow
The overflow property specifies what happens if content overflows an element's box.


Default value: visible


Values:
Value |Description
---|:---
visible |The overflow is not clipped. It renders outside the element's box. This is default
hidden |The overflow is clipped, and the rest of the content will be invisible
scroll |The overflow is clipped, but a scroll-bar is added to see the rest of the content
auto |If overflow is clipped, a scroll-bar should be added to see the rest of the content（<mark>内容溢出时出现滚动条，内容不溢出时不出现滚动条。推荐。</mark>）


#### overflow-x
The overflow-x property specifies what to do with the left/right edges of the content - if it overflows the element's content area.



#### overflow-y
The overflow-y property specifies what to do with the top/bottom edges of the content - if it overflows the element's content area.



### 是个啥盒子（1）
#### display
The display property specifies the type of box used for an HTML element.


Default value: inline
          Inherited: no（但当取值为none时，子元素会继承这个none）


浏览器兼容性:




     Note:  The values "inline-table", "table", "table-caption", "table-cell", "table-column", "table-column-group", "table-row", and "table-row-group" are not supported in IE7 and earlier. IE8 requires a !DOCTYPE. IE9 supports the values.

     Note:  The values "flex" and "inline-flex" requires a prefix to work in Safari. For "flex" use "display: -webkit-flex", for "inline-flex" use "display: -webkit-inline-flex;".




Values（18）:

基本的取值（4）：



Value |Description

---|:---

inline |Default value. Displays an element as an inline element (like <span>)

block |Displays an element as a block element (like <div>)

inline-block |Displays an element as an <mark>inline-level block container</mark>. **The inside of this block is formatted as block-level box, and the element itself is formatted as an inline-level box**

none |The element will not be displayed at all (</mark>has no effect on layout</mark>)




不常用（2）：



Value |Description

---|:---



list-item |Let the element behave like a <li> element（通常是block，前面加项目符号）

run-in |Displays an element as either block or inline, depending on context （不明觉厉。。）




Table相关的（10）：



Value |Description

---|:---



inline-table |The element is displayed as an inline-level table（或许很有用）  

table |Let the element behave like a <table> element

table-caption |Let the element behave like a <caption> element(或许是内部文本居中？)

table-column-group |Let the element behave like a <colgroup> element（这两个或许可以用于多列布局）

table-column |Let the element behave like a <col> element

table-row |Let the element behave like a <tr> element（这两个或许可以用于多列、均分布局；单个table-cell用于垂直居中）

table-cell |Let the element behave like a <td> element

table-header-group |Let the element behave like a <thead> element（应该对布局没影响吧）

table-footer-group |Let the element behave like a <tfoot> element

table-row-group |Let the element behave like a <tbody> element




Flex相关的（2）：



Value |Description

---|:---





flex |Displays an element as an block-level flex container. New in CSS3

inline-flex |Displays an element as an inline-level flex container. New in CSS3







### 盒子可见不可见（1）
#### visibility


The visibility property specifies whether or not an element is visible.

Tip:  Even invisible elements take up space on the page. Use the  display  property to create invisible elements that do not take up space!






     Default value: visible

     Inherited: yes




Values（3）:
Value |Description
---|:---
visible |Default value. The element is visible
hidden |The element is invisible (but still takes up space)
collapse |Only for table elements. collapse removes a row or column, but it does not affect the table layout. The space taken up by the row or column will be available for other content.
If collapse is used on other elements, it renders as "hidden" （<mark>注意：只有IE和Firefox支持collapse</mark>）







































